At the São Paulo Grand Prix, Piastri took pole in sprint qualifying, with Norris second, Leclerc third, and Verstappen fourth. The top four kept the position they started in for the first 17 laps, until Verstappen passed Leclerc for third on lap 18. On lap 20, Hülkenberg retired due to a mechanical failure, necessitating a virtual safety car. Shortly before the virtual safety car was deployed, McLaren swapped their cars, putting Norris into the lead. Norris finished the sprint first, ahead of Piastri, and Verstappen. However, Verstappen later received a five-second time penalty for a virtual safety car infringement, dropping him to fourth, which promoted Leclerc to the final podium spot. The points positions were completed by Sainz, Russell, Gasly, and Pérez. Qualifying was postponed from Saturday afternoon to Sunday morning due to heavy rain. Norris took pole position during a session disrupted by five red flags, ahead of Russell in second. Yuki Tsunoda qualified in third, the highest starting position ever for him and his team RB. The race was held four hours after qualifying. Before the start, Williams were unable to repair Albon's car on time after he crashed out in qualifying, and Stroll was stuck in the run-off area on the formation lap after an unsuccessful attempt of rejoining the track, forcing both drivers out of the race. Russell held the lead for the first half of the race before Hülkenberg spun, bringing out a virtual safety car. Russell and Norris pitted in response, which allowed Esteban Ocon to inherit the lead ahead of Verstappen and teammate Pierre Gasly. Heavy rain soon brought out the safety car, which turned into a red flag on lap 32 as Colapinto crashed in the last corner. Racing resumed again for a short period before Sainz spun into the barrier on lap 39, which brought out another safety car. The subsequent restart allowed Verstappen to take the lead from Ocon, while Norris dropped down to seventh after going off-track. He later was let past by his teammate Piastri, who received a ten-second penalty earlier for causing a collision with Lawson. Verstappen took his first victory in ten races after starting from seventeenth on the grid. He was joined on the podium by Ocon and Gasly, marking Alpine's first-ever double podium and their first podiums of the season.